Now let's take a look at how we can use the stencil feature to add a label to our flour sack in Gimp.
I've gone ahead and brought up an image that I'd like to use for the logo here.
I'll press shift command J to zoom in and what I need to do is remove the white from this image and
have an alpha channel or transparency around the letters to do that I'll come over here to the layer
and right click and I'll choose an alpha channel.
And now that I've done that that will allow me to erase the white if I come over here to the erase tool
and I can click and drag here you can see now we can see through that area.
So to make things a little quicker I'll choose the fuzzy select tool and click out here in the white
and then once I've done that I'll just press command X and that will remove the white from that area
I'll press shift command a to de-select everything.
And now if I zoom out just a bit with the minus key I can come over here to the rectangle select tool
and click and drag out here press control or command X shift command a to de-select and then I'll drag
select this area over here as well and remove that.
Now that we have this I think I probably need to clean it up just a little bit more so maybe down here
I could use that fuzzy select tool and just select the white here and remove that and also maybe I'll
remove some of the white from this area as well.
All right so now that we have that taken care of I think we can save this out as a P and G that we can
use now as a stencil.
So I'll go to file export and I'll save this out as a P N G.
Back here in Blendr we need to bring that stencil into our texture here.
Now if I go over to the texture panel in the Properties window I currently have the image texture selected
So this is the image over here of our painted texture.
I need to switch this from image to brush texture.
And now instead of this burlap seamless I'll bring in that flour sack logo stencil and there it is now
to be able to get this onto our image we need to switch our brush mapping from tiled to Stenzel And
now if I hover over here you can see it appearing in the 3-D view right here.
Now to move this around instead of using the middle mouse button the way we do to move into 3-D view
we use the right mouse button to click and drag and move this around to where we want it.
So I think I'll kind of tumble around like this.
And now I can move this around and I can press shift and right mouse button and click and drag and increase
the size of that.
Now I'll just kind of move it around until I think something like this.
I can also press the control button and the right mouse button and rotate it just a little bit like
that.
Now that it's in place I want to choose a color I'll choose a blue color here and then I'll switch my
Blin mode to multiply.
I'll also bring the strength down a bit to maybe.
Let's type in point five and try that.
Now come back over here to the 3D view and just click and drag and let's see how it works.
I'll just paint over all of this area as well as the 25 pound area down here.
And here we go.
Now switch from stencil to tiled and now we can see the texture on our SAC.
Now it's a little bit dark for me.
Maybe I'll bring it down to point seven for the strength.
And now let's come over here and go ahead and click and drag and see what we can paint on here.
Now if I switch my brush mapping from stencil to tiled again you can see we've got our logo stenciled
on the bag.
And if we zoom in I can see it's actually kind of conforming to our texture as well which is really
nice.
So now that we have that painted on in our next video let's work on painting in some of the shading
here on the bag as well as adjusting the colors.
I think this is a little dark.
We can work on adjusting the colors in the note editor as well.